>> Brown: LAWMAKERS CLASHED WITH
NATIONAL SECURITY OFFICIALS
TODAY AND THREATENED TO CURTAIL
SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS REVEALED
BY FORMER DEFENSE CONTRACTOR
EDWARD SNOWDEN.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT, WE
BRING YOU THE LATEST ON THE
WHETHER HIS ACTIONS WERE
JUSTIFIED BETWEEN DANIEL
ELLSBERG, WHO LEAKED THE
"PENTAGON PAPERS," AND FORMER
ATTORNEY GENERAL MICHAEL
MUKASEY.
>> Brown: THEN, WE EXAMINE SOME
GOOD NEWS ABOUT DEMENTIA, AS TWO
STUDIES IN EUROPE SHOW
PLUMMETING RATES OF DISEASE,
AND SHARPER MINDS AMONG THE
ELDERLY.
>> Ifill: JUDY WOODRUFF LOOKS AT
THE BITTER STANDOFF BETWEEN
WALMART AND WASHINGTON, D.C.'S
CITY COUNCIL, PART OF A WIDENING
FIGHT OVER PAYING WORKERS A
LIVING WAGE.
>> Brown: FROM THE ASIAN NATION
OF MYANMAR: KIRA KAY HAS THE
STORY OF LAND GRABS, AS
GOVERNMENT AUTHORITIES SEIZE
PROPERTY LONG TILLED BY FARMERS.
>> ON JANUARY 31st, MYA HLAING
CAME HOME TO FIND AN EVICTION
NOTICE NAILED TO HIS WALL.
FOR MYA HLAING AND HIS
NEIGHBORS, IT MEANT THEY WOULD
HAVE TO MOVE OUT IN TWO WEEKS,
OR FACE JAIL.
>> Ifill: AND WYOMING POLITICS
TAKES CENTER STAGE AS LIZ
CHENEY, DAUGHTER OF THE FORMER
VICE PRESIDENT, DECIDES TO
CHALLENGE A SITTING REPUBLICAN
SENATOR.
>> Brown: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
TONIGHT'S "NEWSHOUR."
>> Brown: EDWARD SNOWDEN WAS
BACK IN THE NEWS TODAY, FROM THE
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES TO
THE RUSSIAN FAR EAST.
HIS DISCLOSURES OF SWEEPING U.S.
SURVEILLANCE AND HIS CONTINUED
PRESENCE OUTSIDE MOSCOW PROMPTED
A SERIES OF NEW WARNINGS.
THE DAY'S DEVELOPMENTS BEGAN
WITH RUSSIAN PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN AT A MILITARY EXERCISE IN
SIBERIA, OFFERING HIS MOST
EXPANSIVE COMMENTS TO DATE ON
SNOWDEN.
>> ( translated ): MR. SNOWDEN,
AS I UNDERSTAND IT, NEVER
INTENDED TO STAY HERE, IN
RUSSIA, FOREVER.
HE HAS EVEN SAID SO HIMSELF.
HE IS A YOUNG MAN, I EVEN DON'T
QUITE UNDERSTAND HOW HE PLANS TO
LIVE HIS LIFE IN THE FUTURE.
BUT IT IS HIS FATE AND HIS
CHOICE.
>> Bwn: roBUT PUTIN INSISTED
AGAIN THOSE CHOICES WILL NOT BE
ALLOWED TO HARM RELATIONS WITH
THE U.S.
>> ( translated ): BILATERAL
RELATIONS, IN MY OPINION, ARE
FAR MORE IMPORTANT THAN
SQUABBLES ABOUT THE ACTIVITIES
OF THE SECRET SERVICES.
>> Brown: SNOWDEN FORMALLY
APPLIED YESTERDAY, IN A
HANDWRITTEN LETTER, FOR
TEMPORARY ASYLUM IN RUSSIA.
FOR NOW, HE REMAINS HOLED UP AT
AN AIRPORT OUTSIDE MOSCOW.
AND, DESPITE PUTIN'S STATEMENT,
AN ATTORNEY FOR THE FORMER
N.S.A. CONTRACTOR SAID TODAY HE
EXPECTS THAT PETITION TO BE
GRANTED.
>> ( translated ): HE WILL LEAVE
THE AIR IN THE NEXT FEW DAYS
BECAUSE SOME LEGAL PAPERS ARE
STILL REQUIRED TO BE FORMALIZED.
THEREFORE I THINK THIS ISSUE
WILL BE RESOLVED WITHIN A WEEK.
>> Brown: IN WASHINGTON, WHITE
HOUSE PRESS SECRETARY, JAY
CARNEY CALLED AGAIN FOR SNOWDEN
TO BE SENT BACK TO THE U.S., TO
FACE ESPIONAGE CHARGES.
>> MR. SNOWDEN SHOULD BE
EXPELLED AND RETURNED TO THE
U.S. WHERE HE WILL BE CHARGED
WITH SERIOUS FELONIES.
WE SHARE PUTIN'S VIEW THAT WE
DON'T WANT HARM TO BILATERAL
RELATIONS.
>> Brown: SNOWDEN HAS DEFENDED
HIS LEAKS TO BRITAIN'S GUARDIAN
NEWSPAPER AND "THE WASHINGTON
POST" ABOUT SURVEILLANCE EFFORTS
AT THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY.
THEY INCLUDE MASSIVE COLLECTION
OF SO-CALLED TELEPHONE METADATA-
- NUMBERS CALLED, TIMES AND
LOCATIONS OF CALLS AND DURATION.
SNOWDEN ALSO DISCLOSED AN
INTERNET-MONITORING PROGRAM THAT
MINES DATA FOR USERS OUTSIDE THE
UNITED STATES.
IN ADDITION, FROM HIS ORIGINAL
TEMPORARY REFUGE IN HONG KONG,
HE REVEALED MAJOR CYBER-
PENETRATION OF CHINA, ESPECIALLY
ITS UNIVERSITIES.
THE STATUTES ENABLING THOSE
ACTIVITIES WERE THE SUBJECT OF A
HOUSE HEARING TODAY WITH THE
JUSTICE DEPARTMENT, DIRECTORATE
OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE, N.S.A.
AND THE F.B.I.
DEPUTY N.S.A. DIRECTOR JOHN
INGLIS WARNED SNOWDEN'S
REVELATIONS HAVE THE POTENTIAL
TO DO GREAT DAMAGE.
>> THE IMPACT ASSOCIATED WITH
SNOWDEN DISCLOSURES CAN BE VERY
HARMFUL, IT'S TOO SOON TO TELL
WHETHER IN FACT WHETHER
ADVERSARIES WILL  G
OF THE THINGS HE'S DISCLOSED BUT
THOSE CAPABILITIES GIVES
PLAYBOOK HOW TO AVOID TIME
ATTENTION OF U.S. INTELLIGENCE
OR FOR THAT MATTER DOMESTIC
INTELLIGENCE ORGANIZATIONS.
>> Brown: LAWMAKERS COMPLAINED
TOO MANY INNOCENT AMERICANS ARE
CAUGHT UP IN THE PROCESS.
REPUBLICAN JIM SENSENBRENNER
TOLD DEPUTY ATTORNEY GENERAL TOM
COLE  THAT PART OF THE PATRIOT
ACT, UNDERPINNING THE METADATA
COLLECTION, IS IN DANGER OF NOT
BEING RENEWED IN 2015.
>> IT'S GOT TO BE CHANGED AND
YOU HAVE TO CHANGE HOW YOU
OPERATE SECTION 215.
OTHERWISE IN THE YEAR AND A HALF
OR TWO YEARS YOU'RE NOT GOING TO
HAVE IT ANY MORE.
>> Brown: CALIFORNIA DEMOCRAT
ZOE LOFGREN AGREED THERE IS
GREAT SKEPTICISM ON THE LEFT AND
THE RIGHT.
>> I SHARE WITH MR.
SENSENBRENNER THE BELIEF THAT
THIS WILL NOT BE ABLE TO BE A
SUSTAINED.
BUT I THINK VERY CLEARLY THIS
PROGRAM HAS GONE OFF THE TRACKS
LEGALLY AND NEEDS TO BE REINED
IN.
>> Brown: DEPUTY A.G. COLE
ARGUED USE OF THE MATERIAL IS
SEVERELY RESTRICTED BY THE
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
SURVEILLANCE COURT.
BUT NEW YORK DEMOCRAT JERROLD
NADLER WASN'T REASSURED.
>> THE FACT THAT A SECRET COURT
UNACCOUNTABLE TO PUBLIC
KNOWLEDGE OF WHAT IT IS DOING-
FOR PRACTICAL PURPOSES
UNACCOUNTABLE TO THE SUPREME
COURT MAY JOIN YOU IN MISUSING
OR ABUSING THE STATUTE IS NO
COMFORT WHATSOEVER.
>> Brown: THE JUDICIARY
COMMITTEE SAID IT WILL SOON TAKE
CLOSED-DOOR, CLASSIFIED
TESTIMONY ON THE N.S.A.
PROGRAMS.
NOW TO A DEBATE ON SNOWDEN, THE
GOVERNMENT'S RESPONSE TO HIS
ACTIONS, AND THE PROGRAMS HE
REVEALED.
DANIEL ELLSBERG WAS TRIED UNDER
THE ESPIONAGE ACT AFTER LEAKING
THE SO-CALLED "PENTAGON PAPERS"-
- A CLASSIFIED REPORT  WHICH HE
CO-WROTE AS A MILITARY ANALYST
THAT WAS CRITICAL OF U.S.
DECISION-MAKING DURING THE
VIETNAM WAR.
THE CASE AGAINST HIM WAS
ULTIMATELY DISMISSED IN 1973.
AND MICHAEL MUKASEY WAS ATTORNEY
GENERAL DURING THE GEORGE W.
BUSH ADMINISTRATION.
>> LITS GET ON THE TABLE FIRST,
THE PROGRAMS, MHAELIC MUKASEY,
YOU HAVE WRITTEN THAT REAL
DAMAGE WAS DONE BY SNOWDEN.
PLEASE EXPLAIN.
>> I THINK REEL DAMAGE WAS DONE
IN TWO RESPECTS, ONE BY
DISCLOSING THE DETAILS OF THE
PROGRAMS AND THE SECOND BY
SHOWINGOTH B OUR ANNIVERSARIES D
OUR WOULD BE FRIENDS PEOPLE WHO
WOULD PROVIDE HUMAN
INTELLIGENCE, THAT WE CAN'T KEEP
SECRETS.
THOSE TWO THINGS DAMAGE US
TREMENDOUSLY.
>>Brown: AND DANIEL ELLSBERG,
WHAT IS YOUR VIEWPOINT?
>> PARDON ME, I HAVE TO SMILE
THAT OUR FRIENDS WOULD BE VERY
UPSET ABOUT THE THOUGHT TTHA
SNOWDEN HAD EXPOSED THAT WE WERE
SPYING ON THEM WHICH HE HAS
DONE.
I MUST SAY, I THINK A LOT OF US
WOULD BE ENVIOUS OF OUR
CAPABILITY.
I THINK RUSSIA AND CHINA WOULD
BE ENVIOUS OF OUR CAPABILITY, IN
COUNTRIES THAT AREN'T EXACTLY
DEMOCRATIC.
MY CONCERN THE VERY EXISTENCE OF
THIS KIND OF CAPABILITY CHILLS
IN SOME WAY, I CAN'T SEE HOW
THERE CAN BE INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING OF THIS COMMUNITY,
WHEN THE IDENTITY THE METADATA
AND THE COMMUNICATION BETWEEN
EVERY JOURNALIST, EVERY SOURCE
IS KNOWN TO THE EXECUTIVE
BRANCH.
ESPECIALLY ONE THAT HAS PEN
PROSECUTING TWICE AS MANY
SOURCES AS ANY PRESIDENT BEFORE.
MOREOVER, MY EVEN LARGER CONCERN
IS:  I DON'T SEE HOW DEMOCRACY
CAN SURVIVE WHEN ONE BRANCH, THE
EXECUTIVE BRANCH, HAS ALL THE
PERSONAL COMMUNICATIONS OF EVERY
MEMBER OF CONGRESS, AND EVERY
JUDGE, EVERY MEMBER OF THE
JUDICIARY, AS WELL AS THE PRESS,
THE FOURTH ESTATE THAT I'VE JUST
BEEN DESCRIBING.
I DON'T SEE HOW THE BLACKMAIL
CAPABILITY THAT'S INVOLVED THERE
CAN BE -- WILL NOT BE ABUSED AS
IT HAS HAPPENED IN THE PAST,
INCLUDING TO ME, BY THE WAY, AND
TO OTHER -- AND TO JOURNALISTS.
I THINK WITHOUT THAT FREEDOM TO
INVESTIGATIVE -- BRING CHECKS
AND BALANCES WE WON'T HAVE A
REAL DEMOCRACY.
THAT'S MY CONCERN.
>>Brown: LET'S LET MR. MUKASEY
RESPOND.
>> THAT IS AN HYSTERICALLY
INACCURATELY PORTRAYAL OF WHAT
IS AVAILABLE TO THE GOVERNMENT.
WHAT IS AVAILABLE ARE TWO KINDS
OF INFORMATION.
ONE IS SO-CALLED METADATA WHICH
IS A PILE OF NUMBERS, NUMBERS
CALLED AND TIMES.
THEY ARE NOT ASSOCIATED WITH
PARTICULAR PEOPLE AND THE ONLY
PURPOSE OF HAVING THAT IS TO
HAVE A DATABASE AGAINST WHICH TO
CHECK SUSPICIOUS NUMBERS FROM
ABROAD THAT ARE DOCUMENTED TO
BELONG TO SUSPECTED TERRORISTS
UNDER THE SUPERVISION OF A
COURT.
AND TO QUERY THAT DATABASE.
THAT DATABASE CONSISTS OF
MILLIONS AND MILLIONS OF
NUMBERS, THAT'S ALL.
AND IT -- IN 2012 IT WAS QUERIED
300 TIMES BY THE 15 PEOPLE WHO
ARE AUTHORIZED TO QUERY IT.
THAT IS A MICROSCOPIC AMOUNT OF
USE.
ALTHOUGH AN IMPORTANT AMOUNT OF
SO FAR AS SURVEILLANCE CONDUCTED
USE.
ABROAD, OUR FRIENDS SPY ON US,
SO FAR AS SURVEILLANCE CONDUCTED
AND WE SPY ON THEM.
ABROAD, OUR FRIENDS SPY ON US,
THAT IS AN OPEN SECRET.
AND WE SPY ON THEM.
AND HAS BEEN FOR YEARS.
THAT IS AN OPEN SECRET.
AND I SERIOUSLY DOUBT THAT ANY
AND HAS BEEN FOR YEARS.
OF THEM WOULD BE EITHER
AND I SERIOUSLY DOUBT THAT ANY
SURPRISED OR ACTUALLY DISTURBED
OF THEM WOULD BE EITHER
TO HEAR IT.
SURPRISED OR ACTUALLY DISTURBED
AND TO SAY THAT THE RUSSIANS AND
TO HEAR IT.
THE CHINESE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
AND TO SAY THAT THE RUSSIANS AND
ACCESS TO THESE TECHNIQUES IS TO
THE CHINESE WOULD LIKE TO HAVE
PROVE MY POINT.
ACCESS TO THESE TECHNIQUES IS TO
THE RUSSIANS AND THE CHINESE NOW
PROVE MY POINT.
DO HAVE ACCESS TO THEM THANKS TO
THE RUSSIANS AND THE CHINESE NOW
THEM HAVING ACCESS TO
DO HAVE ACCESS TO THEM THANKS TO
MR. SNOWDEN'S COMPUTER WHETHER
THEM HAVING ACCESS TO
HE LIBRARIES IT OR NOT BECAUSE
MR. SNOWDEN'S COMPUTER WHETHER
HE -- LIKES IT OR NOT BECAUSE HE
HE LIBRARIES IT OR NOT BECAUSE
WAS IN CHINA.
HE -- LIKES IT OR NOT BECAUSE HE
THE CHINESE WERE PERFECTLY
WAS IN CHINA.
CAPABLE OF TAKING WHAT W IN
THE CHINESE WERE PERFECTLY
HIS COMPUTERS AND THE RUSSIANS
CAPABLE OF TAKING WHAT W IN
AS WELL.
HIS COMPUTERS AND THE RUSSIANS
>> SO MR. ELLSBERG, WHAT
AS WELL.
DESCRIPTION WOULD YOU OF
>> SO MR. ELLSBERG, WHAT
MR. SNOWDEN, A WHISTLE BLOWER OR
DESCRIPTION WOULD YOU OF
A CRIMINAL OR WHAT?
MR. SNOWDEN, A WHISTLE BLOWER OR
>> CERTAINLY HE IS A WHISTLE
A CRIMINAL OR WHAT?
BLOWER BY ANYEASO RNABLE
>> CERTAINLY HE IS A WHISTLE
STANDARDS.
BLOWER BY ANYEASO RNABLE
IF I'M A WHISTLE BLOWER HE IS A
STANDARDS.
WHISTLE BLOWER.
IF I'M A WHISTLE BLOWER HE IS A
I'M GLAD THERE IS A DISPUTE
WHISTLE BLOWER.
ABOUT THAT BECAUSE IN MY DAY
I'M GLAD THERE IS A DISPUTE
THAT WAS NOT AN HONORRISTIC
ABOUT THAT BECAUSE IN MY DAY
TERM, IT WAS LIKE TRAIT.
THAT WAS NOT AN HONORRISTIC
THERE IS NO QUESTION THAT HE IS
TERM, IT WAS LIKE TRAIT.
AND I'M CONFIDENT THAT HE IS NOT
THERE IS NO QUESTION THAT HE IS
A TRAITOR.
AND I'M CONFIDENT THAT HE IS NOT
ANY MORE THAN I AM AND I'M NOT
A TRAITOR.
OR MR. MUKASEY.
ANY MORE THAN I AM AND I'M NOT
BY THE WAY WHEN MR. MUKASEY SAYS
OR MR. MUKASEY.
THAT THE RUSSIANS NOW HAVE
BY THE WAY WHEN MR. MUKASEY SAYS
ACCESS TO WHAT HE HAS, I BELIEVE
THAT THE RUSSIANS NOW HAVE
ACTUALLY, WHAT MR. SNOANT,
ACCESS TO WHAT HE HAS, I BELIEVE
EDWARD SNOWDEN HAS TOLD AS OF
ACTUALLY, WHAT MR. SNOANT,
TODAY, FORMER SENATOR GORDON
EDWARD SNOWDEN HAS TOLD AS OF
HUMPHREY, HE ASSURED THEM THAT
TODAY, FORMER SENATOR GORDON
THE PEOPLE ARE WRONG, HE USED TO
HUMPHREY, HE ASSURED THEM THAT
TEACH COMPUTER SECURITY TO DIA
THE PEOPLE ARE WRONG, HE USED TO
AND HE WAS CONFIDENT THAT EVEN
TEACH COMPUTER SECURITY TO DIA
OUR OWN NSA WAS NOT CAPABLE OF
AND HE WAS CONFIDENT THAT EVEN
GETTING THE SECRETS.
OUR OWN NSA WAS NOT CAPABLE OF
I THINK IT'S MISTAKEN TO SAY
GETTING THE SECRETS.
THAT IT WAS INTENTIONALLY OR
I THINK IT'S MISTAKEN TO SAY
INADVERTENTLY GIVEN THAT AWAY.
THAT IT WAS INTENTIONALLY OR
BUT IN TERMS OF THE QUESTION OF
INADVERTENTLY GIVEN THAT AWAY.
WHY WE'RE SPYING ON OUR FRIENDS
BUT IN TERMS OF THE QUESTION OF
I DON'T THINK WE'RE SPYING ON
WHY WE'RE SPYING ON OUR FRIENDS
THE CHINESE IN ORDER TO FIND
I DON'T THINK WE'RE SPYING ON
MUSLIM TERRORISTS MAY I SUGGEST.
THE CHINESE IN ORDER TO FIND
I THINK THAT WHAT HAS BEEN
MUSLIM TERRORISTS MAY I SUGGEST.
REVEALED ABOUT THE DEGREE OF
I THINK THAT WHAT HAS BEEN
LISTENING IN WE'RE DOING TO THE
REVEALED ABOUT THE DEGREE OF
REST OF THE WORLD IS THAT THAT'S
LISTENING IN WE'RE DOING TO THE
HARDLY A MAJOR PURPOSE IN SPYING
REST OF THE WORLD IS THAT THAT'S
ON FRANCE, OR GERMANY OR
HARDLY A MAJOR PURPOSE IN SPYING
ELSEWHERE, ANY MORE THAN IT IS
ON FRANCE, OR GERMANY OR
HERE.
ELSEWHERE, ANY MORE THAN IT IS
THE BENEFIT TO THE GOVERNMENT,
HERE.
THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH, IT'S NOT A
THE BENEFIT TO THE GOVERNMENT,
BENEFIT TO US AS A PUBLIC.
THE EXECUTIVE BRANCH, IT'S NOT A
A FINDING OUT, IN THE CASE OF
BENEFIT TO US AS A PUBLIC.
THE CHINESE TRADE NEGOTIATIONS
A FINDING OUT, IN THE CASE OF
BUT ANY KIND OF NEGOTIATIONS
THE CHINESE TRADE NEGOTIATIONS
THEY WANT, ANY KIND OF DISSENT,
BUT ANY KIND OF NEGOTIATIONS
I WANT TO SAY VERY SPECIFICALLY
THEY WANT, ANY KIND OF DISSENT,
WHAT DOESN'T SEEM TO HAVE COME
I WANT TO SAY VERY SPECIFICALLY
OUT.
WHAT DOESN'T SEEM TO HAVE COME
RUSSELL TISE HAS STATEDAS  HAVE
OUT.
ANY OTHER NSA WHISTLE BLOWER,
RUSSELL TISE HAS STATEDAS  HAVE
WILLIAM BEN YIR, CURTIS DRAKE,
ANY OTHER NSA WHISTLE BLOWER,
WILLIAM WEBE, THAT THIS IS THE
WILLIAM BEN YIR, CURTIS DRAKE,
TIP OF THE ICEBERG, NSA IS
WILLIAM WEBE, THAT THIS IS THE
COLLECTING AND STORING ALL THE
TIP OF THE ICEBERG, NSA IS
CONTENT OF ALL THESE
COLLECTING AND STORING ALL THE
COMMUNICATIONS.
CONTENT OF ALL THESE
LET ME SAY METADATA IS
COMMUNICATIONS.
ABSOLUTELY MISTAKEN.
LET ME SAY METADATA IS
>>Brown: LET ME LET MICHAEL
ABSOLUTELY MISTAKEN.
MUKASEY TO.
>>Brown: LET ME LET MICHAEL
HOW DO YOU CHARACTERIZE THE U.S.
MUKASEY TO.
EFFORTS TO GET HIM BACK?
HOW DO YOU CHARACTERIZE THE U.S.
>> I GUESS I JOIN WITH
EFFORTS TO GET HIM BACK?
MR. ELLSBERG IN SAYING I FESS
>> I GUESS I JOIN WITH
HE'S NOT A TRAITOR, HE HASN'T
MR. ELLSBERG IN SAYING I FESS
COMMITTED TREASON.
HE'S NOT A TRAITOR, HE HASN'T
HE HAS VIOLATED TWO OR THREE
COMMITTED TREASON.
SECTION OF THE ESPIONAGE ACT.
HE HAS VIOLATED TWO OR THREE
HE SHOULD BE SENT BACK.
SECTION OF THE ESPIONAGE ACT.
>> PARDON ME --
HE SHOULD BE SENT BACK.
Brown: HOLD ON MR. ELLSBERG.
>> PARDON ME --
I'M REALLY DISTURBED HEARING
Brown: HOLD ON MR. ELLSBERG.
A FORMER ATTORNEY GENERAL
I'M REALLY DISTURBED HEARING
DESCRIBE MR. SNOWDEN AS A
A FORMER ATTORNEY GENERAL
CRIMINAL.
DESCRIBE MR. SNOWDEN AS A
>> HE'S AN ACCUSED PERSON.
CRIMINAL.
COME ON, HE IS AN ADMITTED
>> HE'S AN ACCUSED PERSON.
CRIMINAL.
COME ON, HE IS AN ADMITTED
HE ADMITTED THAT HE STOLE
CRIMINAL.
FORECAST AND VIOLATED --
HE ADMITTED THAT HE STOLE
>>Brown: MR. MUKASEY.
FORECAST AND VIOLATED --
YOU'RE UP.
>>Brown: MR. MUKASEY.
>> AM I A CRIMINAL WAS I A
YOU'RE UP.
TRAITOR?
>> AM I A CRIMINAL WAS I A
>> MR. ELLSBERG HOLD ON A
TRAITOR?
MINUTE, LET MR. MUKASEY RESPOND.
>> MR. ELLSBERG HOLD ON A
>> NOBODY SAYS YOU WERE A
MINUTE, LET MR. MUKASEY RESPOND.
TRAITOR, MR. ELLSBERG, NOBODY
>> NOBODY SAYS YOU WERE A
RESPONSIBLE SAID IT THEN, NOBODY
TRAITOR, MR. ELLSBERG, NOBODY
SAYS IT THERE.
RESPONSIBLE SAID IT THEN, NOBODY
BUT.
SAYS IT THERE.
>>Brown: MR. ELLSBERG PLEASE I
BUT.
HAVE TO INSIST THAT YOU LET HIM
>>Brown: MR. ELLSBERG PLEASE I
RESPOND.
HAVE TO INSIST THAT YOU LET HIM
>> THE FACT THAT YOU ADMITTED IT
RESPOND.
DOESN'T MAKE IT NOT A CRIME.
>> THE FACT THAT YOU ADMITTED IT
AND YOU DID IT IN A VERY
DOESN'T MAKE IT NOT A CRIME.
RESPONSIBLE WAY.
AND YOU DID IT IN A VERY
I WILL SAY THAT.
RESPONSIBLE WAY.
THE STUFF THAT YOU STOLE WAS OF
I WILL SAY THAT.
NEGLIGIBLE IMPORTANCE BECAUSE
THE STUFF THAT YOU STOLE WAS OF
THE MOST RECENT STUFF THAT YOU
NEGLIGIBLE IMPORTANCE BECAUSE
STOLE WAS NO MORE RECENT THAN
THE MOST RECENT STUFF THAT YOU
THREE YEARS OLD AND YOU PRECEDED
STOLE WAS NO MORE RECENT THAN
WHAT YOUR DISCLOSURES BY
THREE YEARS OLD AND YOU PRECEDED
OFFERING IT TO TWO SENATORS.
WHAT YOUR DISCLOSURES BY
BOTH OF WHOM TURNED YOU DOWN
OFFERING IT TO TWO SENATORS.
BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T WANT TO BE
BOTH OF WHOM TURNED YOU DOWN
THE PEOPLE TO DISCLOSE IT.
BECAUSE THEY DIDN'T WANT TO BE
GEORGE McGOVERN AND WILLIAM
THE PEOPLE TO DISCLOSE IT.
FULBRIGHT, BOTH REFUSED TO TAKE
GEORGE McGOVERN AND WILLIAM
THAT STUFF AND DISCLOSE IT.
FULBRIGHT, BOTH REFUSED TO TAKE
YOU DISCLOSED IT INSTEAD TO THE
THAT STUFF AND DISCLOSE IT.
NEW YORK TIMES.
YOU DISCLOSED IT INSTEAD TO THE
>>Brown: MR. ELLSBERG JUST IN
NEW YORK TIMES.
OUR LAST MINUTE PLEASE COME BACK
>>Brown: MR. ELLSBERG JUST IN
TO THE SNOWDEN CASE.
OUR LAST MINUTE PLEASE COME BACK
WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE
TO THE SNOWDEN CASE.
HAPPEN NOW?
WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE TO SEE
>> I'LL TELL YOU EXACTLY.
HAPPEN NOW?
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE RUSSELL
>> I'LL TELL YOU EXACTLY.
TICE, WILLIAM BENNY, THOMAS
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE RUSSELL
DRAKE AND CURT WEBE TESTIFY
TICE, WILLIAM BENNY, THOMAS
BEFORE CONGRESS UNDER OATH
DRAKE AND CURT WEBE TESTIFY
TESTIFY THAT THESE PROGRAMS ARE
BEFORE CONGRESS UNDER OATH
UNCONSTITUTIONAL AND CRIMINAL,
TESTIFY THAT THESE PROGRAMS ARE
THEY HAVE ASKED TO TESTIFY AND
UNCONSTITUTIONAL AND CRIMINAL,
HAVE BEEN IGNORED BY CONGRESS.
THEY HAVE ASKED TO TESTIFY AND
THAT IS EXACTLY THE DEBATE THAT
HAVE BEEN IGNORED BY CONGRESS.
EDWARD SNOANLD WANTE -- SNOWDEND
THAT IS EXACTLY THE DEBATE THAT
TO HAVE.
EDWARD SNOANLD WANTE -- SNOWDEND
THAT IS THE CONVERSATION THAT
TO HAVE.
SHOULD TAKE PLACE IN CONGRESS,
THAT IS THE CONVERSATION THAT
NOT BEING INVOLVING THE PFIZER
SHOULD TAKE PLACE IN CONGRESS,
COURT, THE THOUSANDS AND
NOT BEING INVOLVING THE PFIZER
THOUSANDS OF ACCEPTANCE, IT'S
COURT, THE THOUSANDS AND
CLEARLY A RUBBER-STAMP COURT WE
THOUSANDS OF ACCEPTANCE, IT'S
NEED TO CHANGE THAT.
CLEARLY A RUBBER-STAMP COURT WE
>>Brown: AND VERY BRILYEF
NEED TO CHANGE THAT.
MR. MUKASEY WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE
>>Brown: AND VERY BRILYEF
TO SEE HAPPEN?
MR. MUKASEY WHAT WOULD YOU LIKE
>> I'D LIKE TO SEE HAPPEN WHAT
TO SEE HAPPEN?
HAPPENS IN THE OTHER CRIMINAL
>> I'D LIKE TO SEE HAPPEN WHAT
CARES, TO HAVE MR. SNOWDEN SENT
HAPPENS IN THE OTHER CRIMINAL
BACK HERE AND HAVE HIM STAND
CARES, TO HAVE MR. SNOWDEN SENT
TRIAL.
BACK HERE AND HAVE HIM STAND
AS FAR AS CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS
TRIAL.
ALL THIS MATERIAL WAS GATHERED
AS FAR AS CONGRESSIONAL HEARINGS
PURSUANT TO STATUTES, AT THE
ALL THIS MATERIAL WAS GATHERED
DIRECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE SO
PURSUANT TO STATUTES, AT THE
ALL THREE BRANCHES OF THE
DIRECTION OF THE EXECUTIVE SO
GOVERNMENT WERE INVOLVED IN IT.
ALL THREE BRANCHES OF THE
>>Brown: MICHAEL MUKASEY AND
GOVERNMENT WERE INVOLVED IN IT.
DANIEL ELLSBERG, THANK YOU ALL
>>Brown: MICHAEL MUKASEY AND
VE.
DANIEL ELLSBERG, THANK YOU ALL
VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: IF YOU WONDER WHAT
HAPPENED TO OTHERS CHARGED WITH
ESPIONAGE OVER THE YEARS, OUR
WEBSITE PROFILES 11 OTHER
NOTORIOUS LEAKERS.
AND STILL TO COME ON THE
"NEWSHOUR": GOOD NEWS ON
DEMENTIA; PUSHING FOR A LIVING
WAGE; SEIZING FARMLAND IN
MYANMAR AND FRIENDS TURNED FOES
IN WYOMING.
BUT FIRST, WITH THE OTHER NEWS
OF THE DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: HOUSE REPUBLICANS
MOVED TODAY TO DELAY KEY
PROVISIONS IN PRESIDENT OBAMA'S
HEALTH CARE OVERHAUL.
IT WAS THE 38th TIME THEY'VE
VOTED TO REPEAL OR SCALE BACK
THE LAW.
THE LATEST BILLS WOULD POSTPONE
THE LAW'S MANDATES FOR
INDIVIDUAL AND EMPLOYER-BASED
COVERAGE.
THE OBAMA ADMINISTRATION ALREADY
HAS DELAYED THE MANDATE FOR
LARGER BUSINESSES.
THE FEDERAL RESERVE'S TIMETABLE
FOR DIALING DOWN ITS ECONOMIC
STIMULUS EFFORTS REMAINS
FLEXIBLE.
FEDERAL RESERVE CHAIRMAN BEN
BERNANKE UNDERSCORED THAT TODAY.
HE SAID HE STILL THINKS THE
CENTRAL BANK COULD START
REDUCING ITS BUYING OF
GOVERNMENT BONDS THIS YEAR.
BERNANKE TOLD A HOUSE COMMITTEE
IT DEPENDS ON JOB CREATION, AND
IS NOT PRE-SET.
>> IF THE DATA ARE STRONGER THAN
WE EXPECT.
WE'LL MOVE MORE QUICKLY AT THE
SAME TIME MAINTAINING THE
ACCOMMODATION THROUGH RATE
POLICY.
IF THE DATA ARE LESS STRONG, IF
THEY DON'T MEET EXPECTATIONS WE
HAVE ABOUT WHERE THE ECONOMY IS
GOING, THEN WE WOULD DELAY THAT
PROCESS OR EVEN POTENTIALLY
INCREASE PURCHASES FOR A TIME.
>> Holman: ON WALL STREET,
STOCKS TOOK BERNANKE'S TESTIMONY
MOSTLY IN STRIDE.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED MORE THAN 18 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 15,470.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 11 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,610.
THE CLEVELAND MAN ACCUSED OF
HOLDING THREE WOMEN CAPTIVE FOR
MORE THAN A DECADE PLEADED NOT
GUILTY TODAY TO HUNDREDS OF
CHARGES.
ARIEL CASTRO FACES 977 COUNTS,
RANGING FROM AGGRAVATED MURDER,
INVOLVING A TERMINATED
PREGNANCY, AND RAPE, TO
KIDNAPPING AND ASSAULT.
CASTRO IS IN JAIL ON AN $8
MILLION BOND.
HIS TRIAL IS SCHEDULED TO BEGIN
AUGUST 5.
AL-QAEDA'S BRANCH IN YEMEN HAS
ANNOUNCED THE DEATH OF ITS
SECOND-IN-COMMAND, SAEED AL-
SHEHRI.
THE GROUP SAID TODAY THAT AL-
SHEHRI-- SEEN HERE IN 2011--
DIED OF INJURIES FROM A U.S.
DRONE STRIKE IN NOVEMBER.
HE WAS HIT WHILE SPEAKING ON HIS
CELL PHONE.
Al-SHEHRI SPENT SIX YEARS AS A
U.S. PRISONER AT GUANTANAMO BAY,
CUBA.
HE WAS RETURNED TO SAUDI ARABIA
IN 2007 AND FLED TO YEMEN.
A PROMINENT COMMANDER OF THE
PAKISTANI TALIBAN VOICED REGRET
TODAY FOR THE SHOOTING OF
MALALA YOUSAFZAI.
THE TEENAGE ADVOCATE OF
EDUCATING GIRLS WAS WOUNDED IN
OCTOBER.
SHE HAS SINCE RECOVERED.
NOW, IN A LETTER TO THE 16-YEAR-
OLD, ADNAN RASHEED CALLS THE
ATTACK SHOCKING AND SAYS HE
WISHED IT HAD NOT HAPPENED.
BUT, HE STOPPED SHORT OF
APOLOGIZING.
OFFICIALS IN EASTERN INDIA NOW
SAY AT LEAST 22 CHILDREN DIED
TUESDAY, AFTER EATING A FREE
SCHOOL LUNCH CONTAMINATED WITH
INSECTICIDE.
PARENTS RUSHED TO A NEARBY
HOSPITAL WITH CHILDREN WHO'D
CONSUMED THE MEAL OF RICE,
LENTILS, SOYBEANS AND POTATOES.
LATER, VILLAGERS VENTED THEIR
ANGER, TOPPLING KIOSKS AND
SMASHING POLICE BUSES.
A STATE OFFICIAL SAID THE GRAIN
MAY NOT HAVE BEEN PROPERLY
WASHED.
QUEEN ELIZABETH FORMALLY
APPROVED GAY MARRIAGE IN BRITAIN
TODAY.
THAT MADE IT OFFICIAL, A DAY
AFTER PARLIAMENT VOTED TO
LEGALIZE SAME-SEX UNIONS.
THE NEW LAW ALLOWS GAY COUPLES
TO BE MARRIED IN BOTH CIVIL AND
RELIGIOUS CEREMONIES.
THE CHURCH OF ENGLAND WILL NOT
TAKE PART.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO GWEN.
>> Ifill: NEW RESEARCH SUGGESTS
THERE MAY BE SOME GOOD NEWS IN
THE STRUGGLE AGAINST DEMENTIA.
TWO RECENTLY RELEASED STUDIES
SHOW SEVERE MEMORY LOSS
DECLINING AMONG HEALTHIER AND
BETTER EDUCATED POPULATIONS.
IN ENGLAND AND IN WALES,
DEMENTIA RATES OVER THE LAST TWO
DECADES HAVE DROPPED BY 25%
AMONG THOSE 65 AND OLDER.
AND IN DENMARK, THE PERCENTAGE
OF ELDERLY WHOSE COGNITIVE
ABILITIES WERE SEVERELY IMPAIRED
ALSO DROPPED BETWEEN 1998 AND
2010.
IN THE UNITED STATES, ABOUT FIVE
MILLION PEOPLE HAVE ALZHEIMER'S
DISEASE, BUT THAT NUMBER IS
EXPECTED TO RISE SHARPLY AS BABY
BOOMERS AGE.
FOR MORE, WE'RE JOINED BY
DR. MURALI DORAISWAMY, DIRECTOR
OF THE NEUROCOGNITIVE DISORDERS
PROGRAM AT THE DUKE UNIVERSITY
SCHOOL OF MEDICINE.
>> THANK YOU FOR JOINING US.
VERY MUCH, GREAT
PLEASURE TO BE ON.
>> WHAT ARE THE MOST HELPFUL
SIGNS YOU SEE IN THESE NEW
STUDIES?
>> WELL, THIS IS TERRIFIC NEWS.
THE SO-CALLED SILVER TSUNAMI
THAT WE'VE ALL BEEN SCARED OF
HAS JUST BEEN GRADE DOWN GRADED
FROM GRADE 5 TO GRADE 4.
THE KEY THING TO KNOW IS WE'RE
NOT OUT OF THE WOODS BUT
SUCCESSIVE GENERATIONS OR EVEN
SLIGHTLY I DON'T THINKER COHORT
SEPARATED BY AS LITTLE AS TEN
YEARS PAWRT MAY NOT HAVE THE
SAME RISK.
SO IN OTHER WORDS OUR CHILDREN
OR OUR GRANDCHILDREN MAY NOT
HAVE THE SAME RISK FOR
ALZHEIMER'S THAT WE DO.
THE SECOND THING THAT THESE
STUDIES ARE POINTING OUT IS IF
THE RISK FOR ALZHEIMER'S IS
GOING DOWN FOR SUCCESSIVE
GENERATIONS THEN THAT IS GOOD
NEWS BECAUSE IT INDICATES THAT
IT IS LIKELY TO BE DUE TO
ENVIRONMENTAL OR LIFESTYLE
EFFECTS.
MANY OF THE PUBLIC HEALTH
INTERVENTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN PUT
INTO PLACE SINCE THE 1970S,
ENCOURAGING AMERICANS AND PEOPLE
ALL OVER THE WORLD TO EXERCISE
APPEARANCE OF THEN ON SMOKING
MARLBORO MAN IF YOU WILL, BETTER
EDUCATION I THINK ALL OF THESE
THINGS MIGHT BE HAVING AN
EFFECT.
>>Ifill: DO YOU SEE ANY OF RED
FLAGS IN THIS RESEARCH?
ENGLAND AND WALES NOT
NECESSARILY THE SAME TYPE OF
POPULATION AS WE SEE HERE IN THE
U.S. FOR INSTANCE.
>> THAT'S NOT THE MAIN RED FLAG.
THERE ARE STUDIES THAT HAVE BEEN
DONE IN SWEDEN, IN THE U.S., IN
MANY COUNTRIES THAT SHOW THE
SAME ESSENTIAL DECREASING
INCIDENCE RATES IF YOU WILL FOR
ALZHEIMER'S IN SUCCESSIVE
GENERATIONS.
THAT SAID, THESE ARE
OBSERVATIONAL STUDIES, THESE ARE
NOT TRIALS, WHERE PEOPLE ARE
RANDOMLY ASSIGNED TO TREATMENT
ARMS.
WE CAN'T BE SURE BUT ALL ARE
POINTING IN THE SAME DIRECTION.
>>Ifill: BUT AT AN ALZHEIMER'S
MEETING CONFERENCE TODAY THEY
WERE TALKING ABOUT MEMORY LOSS
BEING MORE OF A WARNING SIGN, WE
HAVE BEEN TOLD LOSING YOUR KEYS
IS NOT NECESSARILY A PROBLEM BUT
NOW MAYBE IT IS.
HEP US WITH THIS.
>> MEMORY PROBLEMS ARE ALWAYS A
SIGN OF ALZHEIMER'S.
ALZHEIMER'S CAN START IN A VERY,
VERY MILD FORM CALLED A SUBBIVE
IMPAIRMENT.
THESE ARE NOT BENIGN PROBLEMS
LIKE SOMETIMES YOU FORGET YOUR
KEYS.
MUCH MORE SERIOUS MEMORY
PROBLEMS, PEOPLE ARE NOT EVEN
REMEMBERING WHAT THEY FORGOT.
THEY'RE HAVING TROUBLE PLANNING.
THEY ARE FORGETTING THE NAMES OF
LOVED ONES AND THOSE NAMES NEVER
COME BACK.
IF YOU FORGET SOMETHING AND IT
COMES BACK TO YOU A COUPLE OF
HOURS LATER IT'S PROBABLY
BENIGN.
THAT SAID THIS RESEARCH IS STILL
IN EARLY DAYS BUT THE KEY POINT
TO REMEMBER IS THERE COULD BE
MILLION CAUSES OF MEMORY LOSS AS
THEY GET OLDER.
IF YOUR MEMORY PROBLEMS START
AFFECT YOUR DAILY FUNCTIONING,
THAT'S WHEN YOU HAVE TO TAKE IT
SERIOUSLY.
A NUMBER OF CONDITIONS CAN MIMIC
ALZHEIMER'S, SUCH AS VITAMIN
DEFICIENCY AND OTHER HEALTH
PROBLEMS.
>>Ifill: JUST BESIDE DIET AND
OTHER HEALTH MEASURES RIGHT?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
WHEN WE SEE SOMEONE COMING IN
WITH MILD MEMORY COMPLAINTS WE
RUN THE FULL MEMORY OF
LABORATORY TESTS, SOMETIMES WE
HAVE TO GET BRAIN SCANS TO MAKE
SURE IT'S NOT A SMALL STROKE OR
SOME OTHER LESION IN THE BRAIN
THAT'S CAUSING THESE BUT FOR THE
VAST MAJORITY OF THESE WITH MIND
FORGOTFULNESS I DON'T THINK THEY
HAVE ANYTHING TO WORRY ABOUT.
>>Ifill: HOW DO THESE STORIES
SQUARE?
SEEMS LIKE EVERY SIX WEEKS WE DO
ANOTHER STUDY OR STORY ABOUT A
STUDY, HOW DOES THAT SQUARE THAT
WITHIN 30 YEARS AMERICANS WITH
ALZHEIMER'S WILL DOUBLE, IS IT A
QUESTION OF SCOPE?
>> WELL, SO FIRST OF ALL YOU
HAVE TO REALIZE THAT MANY OF
THESE FORWARD-PROJECTIONS ARE
MERELY ESTIMATES AND SOME OF THE
PREVIOUS PROJECTIONS FAIRLY TO
TAKE INTO ACCOUNT THE FACT THAT
WITH BETTER HEALTH IMPROVEMENT
OF CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE THE
INCIDENCE OF ALZHEIMER'S WILL GO
DOWN IN THE FUTURE.
RISE IN THE OLDER POPULATION,
THE BOTTOM LINE IS PUBLIC
OFFICIALS PROBABLY NOW HAVE TO
REVISE SOME OF THESE ESTIMATES A
BIT LOWER, IT'S GOOD NEWS BUT
NOT OUT OF THE WOODS.
>>Ifill: NOW DME DEMENTIA IF THS
GOOD NEWS ON DEMENTIA IS THERE
GOOD NEWS ON ALZHEIMER'S IN
SPECIFIC CASES?
>> MOST OF THE TIME BUT NOT
ALWAYS.
IT COULD VERY WELL BE THAT MUCH
OF THE REDUCTIONS THAT WE'RE
SEEING ARE REDUCTIONS IN A TYPE
OF DEMENTIA CALLS VASCULAR
DEMENTIA WHICH IS ACCOUNTED
LARGELY BY CARDIOVASCULAR
DISEASE BY STROKES BY HIGH BLOOD
PRESSURE OR BY CHOLESTEROL.
I SUSPECT THAT IS THE AREA WE
HAVE MADE THE GREATEST GAINS
BECAUSE WE HAVE OTHER WAYS TO
TREAT CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE.
I SUSPECT THAT ALZHEIMER'S HAS
GONE DOWN A BIT BECAUSE WE HAVE
GOTTEN BETTER EDUCATION.
>>Ifill: WE DON'T HAVE RELIABLE
STUDIES THAT SHOW THAT THE RATE
OF ALZHEIMER'S IS DECLINING AS
THE RATE OF DEMENTIA AS WE HAVE
SEEN IN THESE STUDIES?
>> I THI WHNKAT WE HAVE TO
DIFFERENTIATE IS THE RISK VERSUS
THE TOTAL NUMBERS.
THE TOTAL NUMBERS OF ALZHEIMER'S
DISEASE ARE GOING TO CLIMB UP
WARDS QUITE DRAMATICALLY BECAUSE
THE RISING NUMBER OF PEOPLE WHO
LIVE INTO THEIR 70S, 80s AND
90s IS A HUGE RISK.
A GIVEN PERSON'S RISK FOR
DEVELOPING ALZHEIMER'S MAY GO
DOWN.
>> DR. MURALI DORAISWAMY OF DUKE
UNIVERSITY THANK YOU FOR HELPING
US OUT.
>> Ifill: TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT
HOW TO RECOGNIZEARLE Y SIGNS OF
ALZHEIMER'S, READ OUR ONLINE
RESOURCE GUIDE: "TEN THINGS YOU
SHOULD KNOW."
>> Brown: NOW, WHAT CONSTITUTES
A DECENT WAGE?
CITING GROWING ECONOMIC
INEQUALITY, CAMPAIGNS ARE
UNDERWAY AROUND THE COUNTRY TO
PRESSURE EMPLOYERS TO BOOST
WORKERS' PAY.
SOME CITIES, LIKE SAN JOSE AND
SAN FRANCISCO,  HAVE RAISED
THEIR MINIMUM WAGE.
WASHINGTON, D.C. IS TRYING A
DIFFERENT APPROACH.
JUDY WOODRUFF HAS THE STORY.
>> Woodruff: IT LOOKS LIKE ANY
OTHER ROUTINE CONSTRUCTION SITE,
BUT THE WORK AT THIS LOCATION IN
WASHINGTON, D.C., IS AT THE
CENTER OF A MAJOR FIGHT OVER
WAGES CAPTURING NATIONAL
ATTENTION.
WHEN COMPLETED, THE BUILDING IS
SET TO BECOME THE FIRST WALMART
IN THE NATION'S CAPITAL, ONE OF
SIX STORES IT SAYS IT PLANS TO
EVENTUALLY OPEN IN D.C.
BUT NOW A BATTLE OVER A LIVING
WAGE COULD DERAIL THAT PLAN.
LAST WEEK, THE D.C. CITY COUNCIL
APPROVED LEGISLATION THAT WOULD
REQUIRE SELECT EMPLOYERS TO PAY
AN HOURLY RATE THAT'S ALMOST 50%
HIGHER THAN THE CITY'S CURRENT
MINIMUM WAGE.
IF SIGNED INTO LAW, THE MEASURE,
CALLED THE "LARGE RETAILER
ACCOUNTABILITY ACT," WOULD FORCE
BUSINESSES TO PAY WORKERS AT
LEAST $12.50 AN HOUR.
THE BILL APPLIES TO STORES WITH
OPERATING SPACE OF 75,000 SQUARE
FEET OR GREATER, AND WITH ANNUAL
CORPORATE REVENUES OF AT LEAST
$1 BILLION.
UNIONIZED STORES LIKE THE AREA
GROCERY CHAIN GIANT WOULD BE
EXEMPT.
WALMART OFFICIALS HAVE SAID
PLANS FOR THREE OF THE SIX D.C.
LOCATIONS WOULD BE DROPPED IF
THE BILL IS SIGNED, AND COULD
JEOPARDIZE THE OTHER THREE
CURRENTLY UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
JUST BEFORE LAST WEEK'S VOTE,
WALMART'S REGIONAL GENERAL
MANAGER CRITICIZED THE BILL IN A
PIECE IN THE "WASHINGTON POST."
"FROM DAY ONE," HE WROTE, "WE
HAVE SAID THIS LEGISLATION IS
ARBITRARY AND DISCRIMINATORY AND
THAT IT DISCOURAGES INVESTMENT
IN WASHINGTON."
THE FIGHT IN D.C. IS THE LATEST
IN A GROWING NUMBER OF BATTLES
AND SMALLER DEMONSTRATIONS
AROUND THE UNTRCOY TO CALL FOR
HIGHER WAGES FOR LOWER-INCOME
WORKERS.
JUST LAST WEEK, EMPLOYEES AT
SMITHSONIAN MUSEUMS WHO WORK FOR
CONTRACTED FRANCHISES LIKE
McDONALD'S WENT ON A ONE-DAY
STRIKE OVER PAY.
>> NOW I DON'T EXPECT TO MAKE
$70,000, BUT AS AN AMERICAN I
EXPECT A LIVING WAGE.
I'M A SINGLE FATHER AND I MAKE
$10,000 A YEAR.
>> Woodruff: YESTERDAY, WORKERS
RIGHTS GROUPS SPOTLIGHTED PAY AT
McDONALD'S BY CALLING ATTENTION
TO A NEW BUDGETING TOOL MADE FOR
EMPLOYEES.
AS SEEN IN THIS VIDEO, IT
ACKNOWLEDGED WORKERS MAY NEED TO
HOLD A SECOND JOB.
IN D.C., MAYOR VINCENT GRAY HAS
NOT SAID WHETHER HE WILL SIGN OR
VETO THE CITY'S WAGE MEASURE.
HE HAD SUPPORTED BRINGING IN
WALMART.
WE GET TWO VIEWS ON THIS BATTLE
OVER WAGES AND WHAT'S AT STAKE.
DAVID MADLAND IS THE DIRECTOR OF
THE AMERICAN WORKER PROJECT AT
THE CENTER FOR AMERICAN
PROGRESS.
AND STEPHEN MOORE IS AN
ECONOMICS WRITER AND A MEMBER OF
THE EDITORIAL BOARD FOR THE
"WALL STREET JOURNAL."
GENTLEMEN, WELCOME TO YOU BOTH.
>> SO DAVID MADLAND LET ME START
WITH YOU.
FIRST OF ALL HOW IS THE DOLLAR
AMOUNT OF A LIVING WAGE ARRIVED
AT, AND WHY SHOULD SOME
RETAILERS BE REQUIRED TO PAY IT,
AND NOT OTHERS?
>> WELL, USUALLY THE STANDARD IS
TRYING TO GET TO SOMETHING ABOVE
A POVERTY LEVEL WAGE WHERE YOU
CAN REALLY START TO PAY -- PAY
ALL YOUR BILLS AND NOT RELY ON
KIND OF GOVERNMENT ASSISTANCE.
SO I THINK THAT'S PARTLY HOW
THIS STANDARD 12.50 FOR THE D.C.
BILL IS SET.
AND THE LAW APPLIES TO A LARGE
RETAILERS AND I THINK THAT'S A
START.
THE IDEA HERE IS THAT MORE,
LARGER MORE PROFITABLE
BUSINESSES CAN AFFORD TO PAY
THIS HIGHER WAGE.
ULTIMATELY YOU WANT TO APPLY IT
TO ALL CLASSES OF EMPLOYE BUTRS
IT'S A START.
>> STEPHEN MOORE WHY SHOULD BIG
EMPLOYERS BE REQUIRED TO PAY
MORE?
>> I LIVE IN WASHINGTON SO I
KNOW WHAT'S GOING ON THERE IS
THAT THERE'S LITTLE QUESTION
THAT FROM THE HISTORICAL
EVIDENCTHATE  IF YOU RAISE THE
WAGE RATE FROM 7.25 TO 12.50
WHICH IS AN ENORMOUS INCREASE BY
THE WAY, THAT YOU ARE GOING TO
INCREASE UNEMPLOYMENT.
THE EFFECTS OF THIS WILL BE THAT
STORES LIKE WALMART WILL HIRE
FEWER WORKERS.
THE BIG RESPECT TO WASHINGTON,
D.C. JUDY IS WHETHER OR NOT
WALMART WILL EVEN MOVE INTO
WASHINGTON AS A RESULT OF THIS.
THEY HAVE SIX STORES THAT ARE
PLANNED AND THEY HAVE BASICALLY
SAID WE MAY NOT, THREE OF THOSE
STORES WHICH ARE UNDER
CONSTRUCTION YET, MAY NOT
HAPPEN.
IF THEY DON'T MOVE IN WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT THE LOSS OF
HUNDREDS OF JOBS MAYBE
THOUSANDS.
>>Woodruff: DAVID MADLAND WHAT
DO YOU SAY?
>> IT'S HARD TO KNOW EXACTLY
WHAT WALMART WILL DO.
BUT WHEN CITIES AND STATES RAISE
THEIR OWN WAGES, THE BEST
STUDIES COMPARE ONE ADJACENT
COUNTY TO ANOTHER OR ADJACENT
STATE TO ANOTHER.
THEY SHOW THAT RAISING MINIMUM
WAGE HAVE NO EFFECT ON
UNEMPLOYMENT.
STUDIES ALSO, WHEN WALMART COMES
TO DOWN, NO EFFECT ON
EMPLOYMENT.
THEY DESTROY SOME JOBS OF
SMALLER COMPETITORS SO THERE'S
NO NET IMPACT ON JOBS HERE.
THE QUESTION REALLY IS WHETHER
WALMART IS GOING TO PAY A LIVING
WAGE SO THATTISTS EMPLOYEES
AND -- MAKE A LIVING WAGE NOT
ONLY WALMART BUT OTHER LARGE
RETAILERS CAN PAY A LIVING WAGE.
>>Woodruff: STEPHEN MOORE HE IS
SAYING THE EVIDENCE IS IT
DOESN'T HURT UNEMPLOYMENT.
>> WE MUST BE LOOKING AT
DIFFERENT STUDIES.
I'VE BEEN STUDYING THIS FOR 20
YEARS.
THE QUESTION IS ARE THE BENEFITS
YOU KNOW WORTH CLASS OF THIS,
LOOK I'LL GIVE YOU ONE EXAMPLE.
I HAVE TWO TEEN IMAGE AN SONS.
I GUARANTEE I LOVE THEM BUT
THEY'RE NOT WORTH $12.50 AN
HOUR.
>> THEY MAY NOT AGREE WITH YOU.
SE JOBS ARE STARTER JOBS
AND ONE OF THE THINGS I REALLY
WORRY ABOUT WITH RESPECT TO
THESE SUPERMINIMUM WAGE LAWS IS
SOME PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BENEFIT
BECAUSE THEY GET A HIGHER WAGE
BUT THE PEOPLE UNQUESTIONABLY
THAT ARE HURT MOST ARE THE
PEOPLE LESS SKILLED, WHO HAVE
THE LEAST EDUCATION AND WANT
THAT STARTER JOB.
WHAT THE MINIMUM WAGE DOES IS
CUTS OFF THE BOTTOM RUNGS OF THE
LADDER.
>>Woodruff: ALLOW ABOUT THAT?
WE HAVE THE THEORY OF THE
BEST WAY TO GROW THE ECONOMY.
STEPHEN IS ARGUING FOR TRICKLE
DOWN ECONOMICS.
THAT WEALTH WILL TRICKLE DOWN TO
EVERYONE ELSE.
THE EXPERIENCE WE'VE HAD FOR THE
LAST 30 YEARS SHOWS THAT IT'S A
FAILURE.
INSTEAD THE RIGHT WAY TO GROW
THE ECONOMY IS FROM THE MIDDLE
OUT.
YOU RISE WAGES AND BENEFITS, THE
MIDDLE CLASS HAS THE PURCHASING
POWER THAT YOU NEED TO DRIVE THE
ECONOMIC AND WORKERS DO NOT HAVE
THE PURCHASING POWER THEY NEED
NOW.
THAT MEANS THAT BUSINESSES ARE
NOT INVESTING, BY RAISING THE
MINIMUM WAGE THAT IS PART OF ARA
STRONG ECONOMY.
>> LET ME MAKE ANOTHER POINT
THAT I THINK IS SUPPORTING HERE.
IT IS MY BELIEF AND THERE ARE A
LOT OF ECONOMISTS THAT HAVE DONE
STUDIES THAT CONFIRM THIS.
THE MOST SUCCESSFUL ANTIPOVERTY
PROGRAM IN THE LAST 50 YEARS HAS
BEEN WALMART.
WHAT WALMART DOES IS PROVIDE LOW
PROORSES AFFORDABLE PRICES TO
EVERYTHING FROM TOOTHPASTE TO
TRY SICKLES TO LOW INCOME --
>> YOU ARE TALKING ABOUT ACROSS
THE COUNTRY?
>> TENS OF BILLIONS OF GAIN.
THE THING I CAN'T UNDERSTAND IS
WHY LIBERALS HATE WALMART.
THERE ARE THINGS NOT TO LIKE
ABOUT WALMART BUT IT IS A VERY
EFFECTIVE ANTIPOVERTY PROGRAM.
>>Woodruff: BUT TO KEEP THIS ON
THE QUESTION OF THE LIVING WAGE
STEPHEN MOORE WHAT ABOUT ABOUT
THE OTHER ARGUMENT, ESPECIALLY
IN THE BIG CITIES, THE COST OF
LIVING IS HIGHER, IT'S HARDER TO
MAKE IT ON A MINIMUM WAGE IN A
CITY LIKE LOS ANGELES, CHICAGO,
NEW YORK OR WASHINGTON THAN IT
IS IN OTHER PARTS OF THE
COUNTRY.
>> I GUESS MY RESPONSE IS THIS,
IF YOU LOOK AT WHERE THE
UNEMPLOYMENT RATE IS THE HIGHEST
IN THE COUNTRY IT IS CLEARLY IN
THE CENTRAL CITIES, IN
WASHINGTON, D.C. WHERE
UNEMPLOYMENT IS 8.5%.
THESE HAVE BEEN PLAYGROUNDS FOR
LIBERAL IDEAS FOR 50 YEARS, ONE
OF THEM BEING THE SUPERMINIMUM
WAGE LAWS.
I DO THINK THAT LOOK, THERE ARE
A LOT OF REASONS FOR THE HIGH
UNEMPLOYMENT THERE BUT MY POINT
IS THE LAST POINT YOU WANT TO
IMPOSE THESE REALLY HIGH MINIMUM
WAGE REQUIREMENTS ARE PLACES
THAT ALREADY HAVE TENS OF
THOUSAN OFDS PEOPLE WHO DON'T
HAVE JOBS.
>> LOOK, MISSISSIPPI HAS JUST
ABOUT THE HIGHEST UNEMPLOYMENT
RATE IN THE COUNTRY.
NO MINIMUM WAGE.
VERMONT, ONE OF THE HIGHEST
MINIMUM WAGES IN THE COUNTRY.
HAS ONE OF THE LOWEST
UNEMPLOYMENT RAITLE.
REALLY, THE EVIDENCE ON THE
MINIMUM WAGE IS, IT DOES NOT
AFFECT EMPLOYMENT.
THAT'S REALLY --
>> IF THAT WERE THE CASE WHY NOT
RAISE THE MINIMUM WAGE TO 15,
$20 AN HOUR.
>> AT THAT POINT THE MINIMUM
WAGE DOESN'T HAVE AN EFFECT.
THE REASON YOU RAISE THE MINIMUM
WAGE IS THREE REASONS, FIRST,
THAT WORKERS WHO WORK FULL TIME
ARE NOT IN POVERTY.
THAT'S A KEY MORAL IMPERATIVE.
AND THE SECTION, IT'S GOOD FOR
THE ECONOMY TO ENSURE WE HAVE
PURCHASING POWER IN THE ECONOMY
AND THE LAST, IT'S GOOD FOR
TAXPAYERS BECAUSE WHEN YOU DON'T
IMPOSE THESE KINDS OF WAGES YOU
END UP SUBSIDIZING LOW ROAD
EMPLOYERS BECAUSE YOU HAVE TO
PAY FOR FOOD STAMPS AND
MEDICAID.
>> REMEMBER WE'RE NOT TALKING
ABOUT A NATIONAL MINIMUM WAYS
WHICH IS A DIFFERENT MINIMUM
WAGE, WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A CITY
OR STATE SHOULD HAVE A MINIMUM
WAGE.
THE PROBLEM WITH WASHINGTON,
D.C. IT BORDERS RIGHT ON
MARYLAND AND VIRGINIA.
IF THEY RAISE THAT MINIMUM WAGE,
YOU'RE RIGHT WE DON'T KNOW WHAT
WALMART WILL DO MAYBE THEY'RE
BLUFFING MAYBE THEY'RE NOT.
IF THE WAGE GOES UP TO 12.50 AND
THEY DON'T BUILD THOSE STORES,
BY THE WAY YOU TALK ABOUT TAX
REVENUES IT'S ESTIMATED THAT
EACH WALMART STORE WOULD
GENERATE ABOUT $1 MILLION OF TAX
REVENUES OR THE FOR A CITY THAT
NEEDS TAX REVENUES.
>>Woodruff: YOU'RE NOT WORRIED
ABOUT LOSS OF JOBS?
>> THE BEST CASE SCENARIO
WALMART COMES TO D.C. AND PAYS
MINIMUM WAGE, THAT'S THE REAL
GOAL HERE.
MOST STUDIES SHOW WHEN WALMART
COMES TO TOWN IT HAS NO NET
EFFECT ON JOBS.
>>Woodruff: ALL RIGHT, WE'RE
GOING OLEAVE IT THERE, DAVID
MADLAND, AND STEPHEN MOORE, WE
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> Ifill: NEXT, WE TAKE YOU TO
THE ASIAN NATION OF MYANMAR,
ALSO KNOWN AS BURMA, WHERE SOME
FARMERS ARE PAYING A HEAVY PRICE
FOR THE COUNTRY'S EMERGING
ECONOMY.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT KIRA KAY
REPORTS.
>> Reporter: THE FIRST DROPS OF
THE RAINY SEASON HAVE FALLEN ON
MYA HLAING'S RICE PADDIES AND IT
IS TIME TO PLOW AND SOW.
THE RICE WILL BE READY FOR
HARVEST IN NOVEMBER.
MYA HLAINGS LAND AND THE VILLAGE
THAT ABUTS IT WERE SETTLED BY
HIS FOREFATHERS, WHILE MYANMAR
WAS STILL A BRITISH COLONY.
>> ( translated ): I HAVE BEEN
LIVING IN THIS VILLAGE SINCE I
WAS BORN.
EVEN MY GREAT GRANDFATHER LIVED
HERE.
WHEN I DIE, I WISH TO DIE IN
THIS VILLAGE.
>> Reporter: BUT ON JANUARY
31, MYA HLAING CAME HOME TO FIND
AN EVICTION NOTICE NAILED TO HIS
WALL.
THE MYANMAR GOVERNMENT HAD
ENTERED INTO A MAJOR DEVELOPMENT
AGREEMENT WITH A CONSORTIUM OF
JAPANESE COMPANIES, LIKE
MISTUBISHI, THAT WILL INCLUDE
HIGH TECH, FOOD AND TEXTILE
FACTORIES.
FOR IMPOVERISHED MYANMAR, THIS
MEANS LOTS OF JOBS AND A SURGE
OF TRADE AND REVENUE.
BUT FOR MYA HLAING AND HIS
NEIGHBORS, IT MEANT THEY WOULD
HAVE TO MOVE OUT IN TWO WEEKS,
OR FACE JAIL.
>> ( translated ): THIS MEANT
THE DESTRUCTION OF OUR LIVES.
WE WERE ORDERED TO MOVE OUT, BUT
WE WERE NOT OFFERED ANY OTHER
HOUSING OR COMPENSATION FOR OUR
LOSS.
>> Reporter: LIKE MOST OF
MYANMAR'S FARMERS, MYA HLAING
NEVER HELD AN OWNERSHIP DEED TO
HIS INHERITED FIELDS AND FOR
DECADES THIS WASN'T A PROBLEM AS
THE GOVERNMENT ALLOWED FARMERS
BROAD RIGHTS TO CULTIVATE AND
LIVE ON THE LAND.
BUT IN THE LATE 1980s THAT ALL
CHANGED, AS A REPRESSIVE
DICTATORSHIP TOOK POWER AND
STARTED SEIZING LAND FOR
MILITARY USE AND TO HAND OUT TO
THE ELITES.
>> ( translated ): POWERFUL
GOVERNMENT LEADERS, THEIR
CHILDREN AND RELATIVES, TOGETHER
WITH THEIR BUSINESS CRONIES,
LAWLESSLY CONFISCATED A GREAT
DEAL OF AGRICULTURAL LAND FOR
THEIR OWN INTERESTS.
>> Reporter: MAUNG MAUNG WIN IS
A LAWYER BASED IN YANGON.
>> ( translated ): FARMERS WHO
DEMANDED THEIR LAND BACK WERE
JAILED.
THERE WAS HARDLY ANY
COMPENSATION.
IF AN OFFER WAS MADE IT WAS A
MEAGER AMOUNT.
THESE CONFISCATIONS CREATED
GREAT DIFFICULTIES FOR THE
FARMERS' LIVES.
>> Reporter: IN MYA HLAING'S
CASE, IT WAS THE HOUSING
AUTHORITY THAT SEIZED THE LAND
IN 1996 BUT NEVER DID ANYTHING
WITH IT.
OFFICIALS LET HIM STAY, AND EVEN
FARM, AS LONG AS HE ALSO PAID
TAXES.
BUT NOW, FOREIGN INVESTORS ARE
COMING TO MYANMAR AND ALL OF A
SUDDEN, MYA HLAING'S LAND HAS
BECOME VERY VALUABLE TO THE
GOVERNMENT THAT TOOK IT MANY
YEARS AGO.
IN THE LAST YEAR, AS A REFORMIST
GOVERNMENT HAS USHERED IN MORE
DEMOCRATIC PRACTICES, ECONOMIC
SANCTIONS HAVE BEEN DROPPED BY
COUNTRIES THAT HAD FOR DECADES
BOYCOTTED MYANMAR, INCLUDING THE
UNITED STATES.
ALREADY, THE FIRST SIGNS OF
CHANGE ARE APPARENT: CELEBRITY-
FILLED SHOWROOM OPENINGS LIGHT
UP THE YANGON NIGHT.
THERE'S A HUM OF CONSTRUCTION AS
NEW HOTELS AND OFFICE TOWERS
RISE.
MODERN SHOPPING MALLS ARE MAKING
THE LIVES OF BURMESE MORE
COMFORTABLE.
>> IT IS A GET RICH MOMENT AND
THE LAND TENURE FOR POOR PEOPLE
IS THE VICTIM.
>> Reporter: PHIL ROBERTSON IS
WITH HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH.
>> WHAT YOU'VE SEEN IS A
DEPRIVATION OVER THE PAST 40
YEARS IN BURMA WHERE PEOPLE HAVE
NOT BEEN ABLE TO INVEST, TO
MAKE-- DO BUSINESS AND THINGS
LIKE THAT, BECAUSE ITS BEEN
CONTROLLED BY THE STATE,
CONTROLLED BY THE ARMY.
NOW PEOPLE WITH CONNECTIONS ARE
RECOGNIZING THAT THIS IS THE
WINDOW-- MY THREE-TO-FIVE YEARS
WHEN I CAN MAKE MY FAMILY
SECURE.
IT'S A RACE TO CONTROL THINGS,
IT'S A RACE TO CONTROL ASSETS.
IT'S A SWAMP THAT INTERNATIONAL
INVESTORS ARE GOING TO BE
WANDERING INTO AS THEY LOOK TO
INVEST IN BURMA IN THE FUTURE.
>> Reporter: LAWYER MAUNG MAUNG
WIN SAYS THAT WITH SOME 70% OF
THE POPULATION RELYING ON
AGRICULTURE FOR THEIR
LIVELIHOODS, THE RISK OF
INSECURITY FROM UNRESOLVED LAND
ISSUES IS HIGH.
>> ( translated ): SOLVING THE
LAND SITUATION IS THE MOST
IMPORTANT ISSUE IN MYANMAR BUT
THE CURRENT GOVERNMENT CANNOT AS
YET HANDLE IT.
THESE STANDOFFS ARE HAPPENING
EVERYWHERE AROUND THE COUNTRY
AND IF WE DO NOT PRIORITIZE THIS
ISSUE, WE ARE GOING TO RUN INTO
A LOT MORE PROBLEMS.
>> Rorteepr: SOME OF THESE LAND
DISPUTES HAVE TURNED VIOLENT.
IN FEBRUARY DOZENS OF PEOPLE
WERE HURT AND AN OFFICER WAS
KILLED WHEN POLICE USED RUBBER
BULLETS TO DISBURSE PROTESTING
CROWDS.
AND NEAR A CHINESE-BACKED COPPER
MINE IN CENTRAL MYANMAR,
SECURITY FORCES HAVE REPEATEDLY
CLASHED WITH VILLAGERS.
IN NOVEMBER, THEY BURNED
PROTESTING MONKS WITH PHOSPHORUS
MUNITIONS.
AN INVESTIGATIVE PANEL WAS
ASSEMBLED WITH OPPOSITION LEADER
AUNG SAN SUU KYI AT THE HELM.
BUT WHEN SHE DELIVERED THE NEWS
THAT THE PROJECT WOULD CONTINUE,
WITH COMPENSATION, THE NORMALLY-
BELOVED DEMOCRACY ICON WAS
BERATED.
A VIVID DEMONSTRATION OF HOW
CRITICAL THESE STANDOFFS ARE
BECOMING.
BUT EMBOLDENED ACTIVISTS ARE
ALSO NOW SEIZING THE MOMENT OF
SOME NEW FREEDOMS OF SPEECH AND
ASSEMBLY TO RE-ASSERT FARMERS
RIGHTS.
>> ( translated ): DURING THE
MILITARY REGIME THESE LANDS WERE
TAKEN.
>> Reporter: NAY MYO WAI IS
WORKING WITH FARMERS TO MEASURE
EVERY FOOT OF THEIR FIELDS,
ESTABLISHING THE EXACT
BOUNDARIES WITH A G.P.S.
THE FIELDS SIT NEAR YANGON
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, AND WERE
GIVEN TO A LOCAL COMPANY THAT IS
STILL ON U.S. SANCTIONS LISTS.
THE COMPANY HAS SAID IT PAID THE
GOVERNMENT $50 MILLION, BUT
FARMERS SAY THEY SAW LITTLE OR
NOTHING OF THAT MONEY.
NOW THE COMPANY IS LAYING IN
ROADS AND WALLING OFF PARCELS,
REPORTEDLY SELLING THEM TO
INVESTORS FOR UP TO $47,000 AN
ACRE.
LAST YEAR, NAY MYO WAI GOT A
GOVERNMENT PERMIT TO LEAD THE
FARMERS IN WHAT BECAME THE FIRST
LEGAL PROTEST IN THE COUNTRY IN
MORE THAN 20 YEARS.
NOW THEY ARE TAKING THE GPS DATA
AND FILING PETITIONS WITH LOCAL
AUTHORITIES.
AND THEY HAVE SOME HOPE:
AS PART OF THE REFORMS PROCESS
LAST YEAR, MYANMAR'S PARLIAMENT
PASSED NEW LAND LAWS.
ALTHOUGH THE STATE REMAINS THE
OFFICIAL OWNER OF ALL LAND IN
MYANMAR, FARMERS MAY BE GRANTED
FORMAL RECOGNITION OF THEIR
RIGHTS TO OCCUPY, MORTGAGE,
INHERIT AND SELL THEIR FIELDS.
AND RECEIVE FAIR COMPENSATION
FOR ACRES TAKEN FOR LEGITIMATE
GOVERNMENT USE.
THE FARMERS SAY THE STAKES ARE
HIGH.
>> ( translated ): NOW WE CAN'T
WORK ON OUR LAND, SO WE HAVE TO
GO SOMEWHERE ELSE AS DAY
LABORERS.
WE HAVE TO BE DITCH DIGGERS,
CONSTRUCTION WORKERS,
CARPENTERS.
BUT BECAUSE WE ARE NOT
EXPERIENCED, WE ARE EXPLOITED BY
THE EMPLOYERS.
NOW OUR FAMILIES ARE BROKEN, WE
ARE GOING AROUND IN CIRCLES.
>> Reporter: IT WOULD HAVE BEEN
UNTHINKABLE TWO YEARS AGO THAT
PROSTINTEG FARMERS COULD MEET A
FOREIGN TELEVISION CREW.
AND DIDN'T SEEM BOTHERED BY THE
PLAIN CLOTHES POLICE OFFICERS
FILMING OUR CONVERSATION.
>> ( translate d): THIS COULD BE
A TURNING POINT.
AND IT'S ABOUT TIME.
HONESTLY, WE SHOULDN'T HAVE TO
PROTEST.
IT SHOULD BE TAKEN CARE OF BY
WRITING A LETTER.
PROTESTING IS NOT FUN AND WE
DON'T WANT TO DO IT.
WE JUST WANT AUTHORITIES TO
RESOLVE THIS ISSUE.
>> Reporter: LAWYER MAUNG MAUNG
WIN AND HIS STAFF E ALARSO
HELPING FARMERS NAVIGATE THE
COMPLEXITIES OF THE NEW LAND
LAW, HOLDING A WALK-IN CLINIC
THAT IS DRAWING FARMERS FROM
AROUND THE COUNTRY.
>> WHEN THEY TOOK OVER YOUR
LAND, DID ANY NEGOTIATION TAKE
PLACE?
>> Reporter: THESE FARMERS
FIELDS WERE SEIZED FOR A NAVAL
BASE THAT NEVER MATERIALIZED.
THEY HAD BEEN ALLOWED TO KEEP
FARMING AND HAVE TAX DOCUMENTS
TO PROVE THEIR MANY YEARS OF
OCCUPANCY.
BUT IN RECENT MONTHS, THE
MILITARY STARTED RENTING OUT THE
LAND FOR LOCAL FACTORIES AND THE
FARMERS WERE TOLD TO STOP
PLANTING.
SOME OF THEIR HUTS WERE
BULLDOZED.
THE LAWYERS AND FARMERS DECIDE
TO CONTEST THE ORIGINAL LAND
SEIZURE WITH A NEWLY ESTABLISHED
PARLIAMENTARY COMMISSI.ON
BUT MAUNG MAUNG WIN ADMITS HE
FACES AN UPHILL BATTLE.
>> ( translated ): THERE'S NO
REAL RULE OF LAW AND CORRUPTION
REMAINS WITHIN THE COURTS AND
ADMINISTRATION.
WE HAVE SOMETIMES BEEN
INTIMIDATED BECAUSE OF OUR
ACTIVITIES.
WE DO NOW ENJOY SOME FREEDOM OF
EXPRESSION BECAUSE OF THE NEW
CONSTITUTION AND OUR NEWSPAPERS
ARE NO LONGER CENSORED.
BUT ALL THESE DEVELOPMENTS ARE
MOSTLY TAKING PLACE ON THE
SURFACE OF SOCIETY AND
INJUSTICES CONTINUE TO TAKE
PLACE.
>> Reporter: BACK IN THE RICE
FIELDS OUTSIDE YANGON, FARMER
MYA HLAING HAS ORGANIZED HIS
NEIGHBORS.
THEY PUT UP SIGNS IN DEFIANCE OF
THE EVICTION NOTICE, STATING
THEY WERE RIGHTFUL OCCUPANTS WHO
PAY TAXES.
AND MYA LAING BEGAN STUDYING
MYANMAR'S LAND LAWS.
>> ( translated ): OVER I THINK
THIS PROJECT IS IMPORTANT AND
WILL BRING IN BENEFITS FOR OUR
COUNTRY.
BUT WE NEVER HAD A VOICE; IF
THERE IS EXPLOITATION, WE HAVE
TO FIGHT AGAINST IT.
>> Reporter: JUST A FEW WEEKS
AGO, WITH JAPANESE INVESTORS
MAKING THEIR IMPATIENCE CLEAR,
MYANMAR GOVERNMENT OFFICIALS
ANNOUNCED THEY WILL SURVEY THE
AREA TO SET A COMPENSATION
PACKAGE USING, QUOTE,
"INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS."
MYA HLAING SAYS HE WILL LEAVE IF
THE DEAL IS FAIR, BUT HE
CONTINUES TO TILL HIS RICE
PADDIES, HOPING TO SQUEEZE IN
ONE MORE HARVEST BEFORE HE
LEAVES HIS ANCESTRAL HOME FOR
GOOD.
>> Brown: KIRA'S STORY IS PART
OF OUR PARTNERSHIP WITH THE
BUREAU FOR INTERNATIONAL
REPORTING.
>> Ifill: FINALLY TONIGHT, THE
REPUBLICAN PARTY'S CIVIL WAR IN
WYOMING, WHERE AN INCUMBENT
SENATOR IS GETTING A CHALLENGE
FROM A CANDIDATE WITH A FAMILIAR
NAME.
>> I'M RUNNING BECAUSE I BELIEVE
IT IS NECESSARY FOR A NEW
GENERATION OF LEADERS TO STEP UP
TO THE PLATE.
>> Ifill: LIZ CHENEY ANNOUNCED
HER PLANS IN A WEB VIDEO
YESTERDAY.
THE CONSERVATIVE COMMENTATOR AND
ELDEST DAUGHTER OF FORMER VICE
PRESIDENT DICK CHENEY IS
CHALLENGING THREE-TERM INCUMBENT
MIKE ENZI, IN NEXT YEAR'S
REPUBLICAN PRIMARY.
CHENEY CALLS HERSELF A TEA PARTY
SYMPATHIZER, AND ARGUES ENZI'S
LONG STAY IN WASHINGTON IS PART
OF THE PROBLEM.
>> WE CAN NO LONGER AFFORD TO
SIMPLY GO ALONG TO GET ALONG.
WE CAN'T CONTINUE BUSINESS AS
USUAL IN WASHINGTON.
>> Ifill: CHENEY ACTUALLY SPENT
MUCH OF HER LIFE IN AND AROUND
WASHINGTON BEFORE MOVING BACK TO
HER HOME STATE LAST FALL.
HER FATHER WAS A LONGTIME
CONGRESSMAN AND WHITE HOUSE
AIDE.
LATER, SHE WORKED AT THE STATE
DEPARTMENT.
HER ANNOUNCEMENT CAME SHORTLY
AFTER ENZI ANNOUNCED HIS OWN
PLANS TO RUN FOR REELECTION IN A
TYPICALLY LOW PROFILE WRITTEN
STATEMENT.
>> Ifill: SENATE REPUBLICAN
COLLEAGUES, INCLUDING WYOMING'S
OTHER SENATOR, JOHN BARRASSO,
QUICKLY DECLARED SUPPORT FOR
ENZI.
BECAUSE REPUBLICANS HEAVILY
OUTNUMBER DEMOCRATS IN WYOMING,
THE CANDIDATE WHO WINS THE
G.O.P. PRIMARY WILL ALMOST
CERTAINLY GO ON TO TAKE THE
GENERAL ELECTION.
WE GET MORE ON THE DUEL IN THE
COWBOY STATE FROM JONATHAN
MARTIN.
HE'S NATIONAL POLITICAL
CORRESPONDENT FOR THE "NEW YORK
TIMES."
JONATHAN.
HOW UNUSUAL IS IT TO HAVE A
SITTING SENATOR CHALLENGED BY
SUCH A HIGH PROFILE PERSON AT
THIS TIME?
IN WELL, IT'S UNIQUE IN THIS
SENSE BECAUSE WE'VE SEEN THESE
CHALLENGES IN PRIMARIES IN
RECENT YEARS.
IT'S BEEN WITH A SENATOR WHO HAS
CROSSED THE PARTY BASE IN SOME
FASHION.
>>Ifill: RIGHT.
THEY HAVE GONE HOME IN THE
CASE OF DICK LUGER OF INDIANA OR
TAKEN SOME VOTES FROM THEIR
CONSERVATIVE BASE.
THIS IS MORE OF A MATTER OF A
SMALL CONSERVATIVE STATE AND
SOMEONE WHO HAS A FAMOUS LAST
NAME IN THAT STATE AND SOMEBODY
WHO IS A REFORM FIGURE IN HER
OWN RIGHT WHO WANTS TO HAVE A
SENATE SEAT.
I THINK THERE WAS AN ASSUMPTION
OR HOPE IN THE CHENEY CASE,
THAT, HE'S SERVED TWO TERMS,
ALMOST 70 YEARS OLD, THAT DIDN'T
HAPPEN.
I THINK SHE DECIDED TO GO
FORWARD WITH IT.
>>Ifill: WYOMING IS BI AG STATE
BUT POLITICALLY IT'S SMALL.
IS THERE BAD BLOOD BETWEEN THE
CHENEYS AND THE ENZIS,.
>> NOT AT ALL.
I HAD A LONG CHAT WITH DISMART
ENZI, HE FIRST GOT TO KNOW DICK
CHENEY WHEN ENZI WAS A TOWN CAL.
THEY WERE FLY-FISHING FRIENDS,
THEY GO WAY WAY BACK.
IT IS A SMALL POLITICAL STATE IN
THE SENSE EVERYBODY KNOWS ONE
ANOTHER.
I ASKED THE SENATOR IF HE HAD
HEARD FROM CHENEY, HE SAID NO,
BUT IF HIS DAUGHTER HAD NOT
EXPECTED TO RUN.
HE HAS NOT YET HEARD FROM HIS
OLD FRIEND.
>>Ifill: NOT FROM HER EITHER.
NOT THAT SHE HAS DECIDED.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
YOU MENTIONED OARL CHALLENGES
OTHER CHALLENGED INCUMBENTS HAVE
BEEN TAKEN OUT BY TEA PARTY.
>> THE SHOW HORSE OR WORKHORSE,
HE'S A WORKHORSE,HI
SCENES, CONSENSUS ORIENTED
SENATOR WHO VOTES CONSERVATIVE
DOWN THE LINE.
YOU CAN'T FIND MANY VOTES THAT
ARE NOT CONSERVATIVE BUT ONE
AREA HE MAY BE VULNERABLE IS HE
IMPOSED A MEASURE TO SUPPORT
INTERNET SALES.
THE VULNERABILITY WE'RE SEEING
THIS WITH CHENEY'S COMMENTS
ALREADY IS THAT HE WORKED WITH
DEMOCRATS, HE WAS VERY CLOSE TO
THE LATE SENATOR TED KENNEDY ON
THE HEALTH AND EDUCATION
COMMITTEE AND SO HE IS KNOWN AS
SOMEBODY THAT --
>>Ifill: TOO ACCOMMODATING.
IN THE EYE OF SOME
CONSERVATIVES WHO IS TOO
ACCOMMODATING.
THEY WOULD NEED SOMEBODY IN THIS
WAY OF THINKING WHO WAS MORE
PUGNACIOUS.
>>Ifill: WHAT IS HER REPUTATION,
SHE IS PUGNACIOUS?
>> SHE IS PUGNACIOUS.
A HARD DRIVING TRUE
CONSERVATIVE.
VERY HAWKISH, THAT'S WHY SHE'S
BEST KNOWN ON THE FOREIGN POLICY
ISSUES.
SO I THINK SHE WILL RUN AT HIM A
GENERATIONAL STANDPOINT.
HE'S 69, SHE'S 46.
TIME FOR NEW ENERGY.
>>Ifill: IN FACT TODAY SHE
THOUGHT HE WAS MAYBE CONFUSED IN
THINK SHE WOULD NOT RUN FOR HIS
SEAT.
>> CONFUSED WAS A WORD I WAS
STRUCK BY TOO.
I THINK SHE'S RUN A GENERATIONAL
CAMPAIGN, AND IDEOLOGIC, HE'S A
GET-LONG GO-LONG, AND THE OBAMA
PARTY SHOULD TAKE IT TO THE
DEMOCRATS.
>>Ifill: THIS COMPARISON MAY NOT
HOLD UP BUT HILLARY CLINTON, AND
LIZ CHENEY, EVEN THOUGH HER
FAMILY GOES WAY BACK IN WYOMING
WAS RAISED AND SPENT MOST OF HER
FORMATIVE YEARS IN WASHINGTON.
DOES THAT HURT HER?
>> I THINK THAT'S GOING TO BE A
CHALLENGE FOR HER.
THE CLUE I GOT SHE KNEW THAT
WOULD BE HER BIGGEST CHALLENGE,
THE VIRD YOA SHE USED TO
ANNOUNCE HER CAMPAIGN, THE FIRST
MINUTE OR SO WAS IN EFFECT A
GENEALOGY RUN DOWN OF HER FAMILY
GROUPED.
THAT MEANS SHE HAS TO OVERCOME
THAT ISSUE.
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE
SUSPICIOUS OF THE FACT THAT SHE
CAME BACK TO THE STATE TO RUN
AND I THINK THAT'S PROBABLY THE
BIGGEST CHALLENGE NOW.
>>Ifill: WHY ANNOUNCE NOW?
THE DEADLINE ISN'T UNTIL NEXT
YEAR.
THIS IS A 2014 RACE.
WHY ARE THEY GETTING INTO THIS,
MONEY?
>> SHE CALLED THINKING SHE WAS
GOING TO RUN.
IT PROBABLY FAST-FORWARDED SOME
OF THE THINKING ON THIS SCORE.
IT WAS VERY INTERESTING LAST
NIGHT THE ONE AFTER THE OTHER
STATEMENT, MY SENSE IS THAT ENZI
HEARD THAT HER ANNOUNCEMENT AND
HE WAS IN FACT RUNNING FOR A
4th TERM.
>>Ifill: WILL SHE GET GOOD
FINANCIAL SUPPORT?
>> THAT'S THE FACT, HE IS NOT A
GOOD FUND RAISER.
I ASKED HIM HOW MUCH HE RAISED
AN HE SLUGD.
HE DIDN'T KNOW.
SHE WILL RAISE A LOT OF NATIONAL
MONEY A LOT OF CONSERVATIVE
MONEY AND THIS IS A CAMPAIGN
THAT WYOMING LAST NOT SEEN FOR A
LONG LONG TIME AND IT'S GOING TO
BE A REALLY TOUGH RACE BUT FUN
FOR US TO WATCH.
>>Ifill: ALWAYS FUN FOR US TO
WATCH.
JONATHAN
>> Brown: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
U.S. LAWMAKERS CLASHED WITH
NATIONAL SECURITY OFFICIALS AND
THREATENED TO CURTAIL SWEEPING
SURVEILLANCE PROGRAMS.
AND THE HEAD OF THE FEDERAL
RESERVE SAID THE TIMETABLE FOR
DIALING DOWN ECONOMIC STIMULUS
EFFORTS REMAINS FLEXIBLE.
>> Ifill: ONLINE, WE HAVE TWO
STORIES ABOUT CHINA.
KWAME HOLMAN EXPLAINS.
>> Holman: NEW DATA SHOWS
ECONOMIC GROWTH IN CHINA IS
SLOWING.
FROM BEIJING, FULBRIGHT SCHOLAR
AND COMEAN JDIESSE APPEL
REFLECTS ON THE WIDENING GAP
BETWEEN RICH AND POOR.
AND ON ART BEAT, A PHOTOGRAPHER
CAPTURES HOPE AND ALIENATION
FELT BY MIGRANT WORKERS WHO HAVE
MOVED TO CHINA'S CITIES.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
JEFF?
>> Brown: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON WEDNESDAY, WE'LL LOOK AT THE
TRUE COSTS AND COVERAGE FOR
OBAMACARE.
I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
>> Ifill: AND I'M GWEN IFILL.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU AND GOOD NIGHT.